# Aermacchi MB-326

## ADCs

- [MB-326B](MB-326B.json)
- [MB-326E](MB-326E.json)
- [MB-326F](MB-326F.json)
- [MB-326G](MB-326G.json)
- [MB-326H](MB-326H.json)
- [MB-326K](MB-326K.json)
- [MB-326L](MB-326L.json)

## Notes and Changes

### Original ADCs

An ADC for the MB-326 appeared in *Air Strike*. I don't have the ADCs, but it appears to have included the base, K/Impala II, and L versions.

Scott Forrest, in APJ 14, listed ADC differences between the B-H, GB, K, L, and Impala II.

Chris Perleberg has version 2 ADCs for the B-H, GB, K, L, and Impala I/II, apparently with Forrest's modification.

### MB-326B/E/F/H

ADC from Perleberg.

Users: B - Tunisia, E - Italy, F - Ghana, H - RAAF/RAN

B could not use FTs, but F could (Goebel).

Wikipedia says H is essentially G with improved avionics, but the Perleberg/Forrest ADC has the H with the same power as the F.
Goebel has the H being a derivative of the B with provision for RAAF stores.

Goebel says the E were basic MB-326s with the G wing.

H build both by Aermacchi and CAC (as the CAC-30).

### RAAF MB-326H Service

RAAF to 2001 (Frawley)

- GE Minigun pods (Frawley) with 2000 rpm and 200 rounds (6 seconds = 3 ammo). This looks to be the [SUU-11A/A](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M134_Minigun#Gun_pods_and_other_mounting_systems) GP. This has a lower rate of fire then the SUU-11B/A GP in TSOH.
- 38 x 25 kg practice bobs (Frawley)

### MB-326G

ADC from Perleberg.

- GB: Argentine, Zaire, Zambia
- GC: Brazil, Argentina (after 1982), Togo, Paraguay

States that Argentine can use the Pescador ASM.

Kocuka: Xavante manufactured from 1971 to 1983. Armament: 250 and 500 lb bombs; pods with 7.62 mm machine guns; pads with seven 70 mm rockets; LM-80/19 pods with 19 rockets; LM-37/36 pods with 36 x 37 mm rockers.

AT-26 Xavante = Brazilian AF designation of the GC

RT-26 Xavante = Reconnaissance version

#### Falklands

Dildy: Argentina acquired 6 in 1969 and 2 in 1973. In service from 1970.

- RPs

Options (Dildy):

- Pair of M2 .50 cal plus:
  - 4 x LAU-10 (four Zuni/Mk.24)
  - 4 x LAU-32 (seven 2.5" FFAR)
  - 4 x Matra-122 (seven 68 mm SNEB)
  - 4 x Mk.81
  - 2 x Mk.82
- Fixed reflector gunsight

Dildy: Seven available. All based at mainland bases. One crashed during war. British embargo made engine unservicable, so replaced with eleven Xavantes.

### MB-339

### MB-326K

ADC from Perleberg.

SAAF designation was "Impala Mk.II".

Goebel: cockpit armor, twin 30 mm, uprated Viper 632-43 engine, six stations for 4000 lb, including GP, BB, RP, "four-camera PP", and Magic IRMs.

Possibly the Impala Mk.II had the same Viper 20-540 engine as the G.

Cockpit armor gives vulnerability of -1 compared to -2.

Kocuka: Impala Mk. 2 used by Brazilian AF from 2004 to 2009. Designated AT-26A. Confirms used os Viper 20 Mk 540 engines.

Users: SAAF, Zaire, UAE, Ghana, Tunisia

### MB-326L

ADC from Perleberg

Users: Tunisia, UAE

### MB-326M

Similar to G (Wikipedia). Similar to B but with a wider range of stores (Goebel).

License in 1964 and production from 1966.

Built by SA as Impala Mk.I.

### Impala

Lord calls them the "Impala Mk I" and "Impala Mk II".

#### Engine

Gobel/Kocuka: use the Viper 20 of the G/M rather than the Viper 600 of the K/L

#### Armament

Perleberg: Cannot use RG.

Lord mentions:

- FTs
- PP
- Matra F2 RPs (6 x 68 mm)
- 250 kg bombs

Lord does not mention BG, RK, GP, EP, or IRM.

### Engines

- Early = Viper 11 = 1134 kg thrust
- G = Viper Mk. 20 = 1524 kg thrust
- K = Viper Mk. 600 = 1814 kg thrust

Gobel:

- Early = Viper 11 = 1135 kgf
- G = Viper 20-540 = 1545 kgf
- K/L = Viper 632-43 = 1815 kgf

### Armament

- Two 7.7 mm guns in the forward fuselage (planned for A and C only)
- Nord AS.12 missiles
- SAAF:
  - 6 x 120 kg BB
  - 4 x 250 kg BB
  - SNEB 4 x 6 or 2 x 18 and two 30 mm GPs
  - Magic on Impala Mk.II

  [Martín Pescador](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CITEFA_MP-1000_Martin_Pescador). Seems to be a RG, similar to the AGM-12 or AS.12.

  AS.12 or SS.12 [used by](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SS.12/AS.12#Operators) these MB-326 operators:
  - Argentina
  - Ivory Coast
  - Tunisia
  - UAE

### FTs

Need to add FTs to ADCs after the B.

The first image in the Grupo Volo page shows an 323K with FTs on the station just outside the wing fence. That would be the middle station.

Wikipedia has the 326G internal fuel being 1392L and the fuel with underwing tanks being 2056L. The FTs thus appear to be 332L.

Kocuka: wing-tip FTs on early were 204L each

Kocuka: FTs on early were 305L. Models with the Viper 20 could use 332L FTs. on the K, two stations were wet and could carry 340L FTs.

- B/E/F/H: 300L
- G: 330L
- K/L: 340L, but we will say 330L since 20L is only about 2 fuel points

## Internal Fuel

- G = 368 US gal (Wikipedia) and 1150 miles
- 368 US gal = 120 fuel points, but the ADCs have 200 (B/E/F/G/H/M) or 240 (K/L)
- 120 at N power is 2 hours = 900 miles.
- Ferry range with internal fuel and tanks = 1500 miles (Wikipedia)
- External tanks add 660L = 175 gal. Total = 540 gal = 176 fuel points = 3 hours.

Perlberg has K with 20% more fuel (240/200)

Change to 120 and 145 for K.

### IRMs

Gobel: Magic IRMs on K

I assume the L has the same capability as the K.

### ECCM

Kocuka: Impala II equipped with chaff/flares and RWR

## VPs

Perleberg has:

- K/M: 12/8/4/2
- Impala II/G: 11/7/3/2
- B-H: 10/6/3/2

This seems to be based on the engine, but the M has the same engine as the G.

I'd suggest:

- K/II: 12 (guns)
- L/M/I = 11 (no guns but more stores)
- B-H: 10 (no guns and fewer stores)

Implemented in #285.

### Summary

||B|E|F|G|H|K|L|I1=M|I2|
|--|--|--|--|--|--|--|--|--|--|
|Year|1965|1968|1965|1969|1967|1971-1974?|1975|1966|1974|
|Engine|11|11|11|20-540|22-11|632-43|632-43|20-540|20-540|
|Thrust (kgf)|1134|1134|1134|1545|1134|1845|1845|1524|1524|
|Crew|2|2|2|2|2|1|2|2|1|
|Guns?|No|No|No|No|No|Yes|Yes?|No|Yes|
|Load|2000|2000|2000|4000|4000|4000|4000|4000|4000|
|Vulnerability|-2|-2|-2|-2|-2|-1|-1?|-2|-1|
|FTs|N|Y|Y|Y|Y|Y|Y|Y|Y|
|IRMs|N|N|N|N|N|Y|Y?|N|Y|

- BT: no provision for under-wing FTs and smaller wing-tip FTs

## Bibliography

- [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aermacchi_MB-326)
- [Goebel](https://www.airvectors.net/avmb326.html)
- [Grupo Volo](https://www.volareflyfree.com/aermacchi-MB-326.html)
- [Rogerio Kocuka](https://forum.plastibrasil.com/viewtopic.php?t=14590)
- Frawley, Phil, [The Macchi MB.326H](https://fighterjet.com.au/2016/12/15/macchi-mb-326h/)
- Lord, Dick, "From Fledgling to Eagle: The South African Air Force during the Border War"
- Dildy, Douglas C.: MB-326 and MB-336 in South Atlantic War <https://www.scribd.com/document/324084444/Aermacchi-Mb339>
