# Aermacchi MB-339

## Notes and Changes

### MB-339A

This has an identical wing, engine, and engine to the MB-326K (Wikipedia). The main structural differences seem to be the raised rear cockpit and larger fin (Wikipedia).

### MB-339C

- RWR (Goebel)
- HUD (Goebel) so bomb system computed?

### Fuel

- 373 US gal (Wikipedia) = 120 fuel points (like MB-326)

### Stations and Stores

MB-339A stations (Kettler):

- inner wing: 1000 lb
  - BB: 2 × Mk81 or 1 × Mk82
  - RP: LAU-10/A (4 × 5in) or LAU-68 (7 × 2.75 in)
  - GP: 30 mm ADEN (400 kg)
- middle wing: 1000 lb
  - BB: as above
  - RP: as above
  - FP: 325L (260 kg)
- outer wing: 750 lb
  - BB: 1 × Mk81 or 1 × Mk82

Chant (p.35) shows an MB-339 with wing-tip tanks, FTs, and what appears to be a GP.

Normal load is two 30 mm GPs and four 5-inch rockets (Ethel & Price, p. 255).

Armament (Wikipedia)

- Provision for two .50 cal or two 30 mm DEFA cannons under the wings
- Six stations with up to 4000 lb of weapons
- Zuni or SNEB RPs
- AIM-9 or R.550 Magic AAMs
- GP bombs

### Falklands

10 delivered in 1980 (Dildy)

Armament (Dildy):

- 3500 lb
- Pods with 1 x 30 mm DEFA 533 guns and 120 rounds per gun plus:
  - 2 x Matra 155 (12 x 68 mm)
  - 2 x LAU-10 (4 x Zuni)
  - 2 x Mk.81/82 bombs
- Aleni-built Saab gyro-stabilized gun sight

Dildy: two MB-339s stationed at Stanley for recce as the Neptunes were unservicable. Lack of hard stand was a problem. Stationed on wooden planking adjacent to south side of runway on its east end. Lead by Capitán de Corbeta Alberto Molteni.

Moteni favored attacks with 30 mm and Zunis as the weapons system released all bombs at the same instant.

Remaining nine MB-326s and seven MB-329s deployed from mainland bases.

First sortie of two aircraft on 3 May to investigate naval radar contact (determined by the TPS-43F) 60 nm SSE. One crashed on return flight killing Teniente de Fregata Benítez.

Two more delivered on 15 May.

Low temperatures and precipitation were a problem for the MB-339s.

### Bomb System

MB-339A has ballistic system (Kettler)

### Fuel

MB-339A internal fuel is 1100 kg (Kettler). This is 121 fuel points, as 20 lb = 1 fuel point.

### ECM/Radar

RWR (Kettler)

### Service with the Argentine Navy

10 MB-339As delivered in 1981. Six of these were based at BAM Malvinas during the South Atlantic War (Wikipedia). Five (Ethel & Price, p.30)

Used by 1 Escuadrilla de Ataque (Chant, p. 35).

A single MB-339A attacked HMS *Argonaut* during the landings at 10:05 on 21 May Piloted by Lt. Owen Crippa (Wikipedia, Ethel & Price). Used  30 mm and four 5-inch rockets (Wikipedia, Chant, p. 62, Ethel & Price, p. 108).

One lost on 28 May at Goose Green to Blowpipe (Ethel & Price, p. 163). Pilot killed. Given as 27 May (Wikipedia). Pilot was Lt. Miguel (Wikipedia).

On 21 May, Cripa launched on a two-ship, but the other aborted. Feet-wet at foul bay. Found Argonaut patroling the northern end of San Carlos Strait and two others patrolling the southern end. Saw “Jason” (Argonaut's Lynx), maneovered to attack but then lines up on Argonaut. Launched eight Zunis (all missed) and fired 30 mm (hit hanger) damaging aft gunner director and injuring three sailors manning small arms. Turned into SCW to avoid the two southern ships and saw "the entire British fleet". Engaged by 4.5" from Plymoth and Seacat from Fearless, troops on Canbera, and Blowpipe. Flew to SWC western show then over Campito, the ridge to Ajax Bay, and escaped to S. Returned to southern end of SCW to count and note ships.

Raids destroyed two MB-339s (and one Pucára), so reinforced with two MB-339s on May 26/27.

Strike missions on 28 May against troops attacking Goose Green. Moldeni and Teniente de Cobeta Miguel. Miguel shot down by Blowpipe fire by Marine Strange of 3 Commando Briage Air Company.

With defeat inevitable, Moldeni ordered to save as much as he could. Two serviciable MB-339s flew out on 5 June.

Five MB-339 (one crash, one shot down, two to ground attacks, one unable to leave) and two crew lost. Five survived. British embargo made engine unservicable, so replaced with Xavante.

## Bibliography

- Chant, Christopher, *Air War in the Falklands 1982*, Osprey
- Ethell, Jeffrey, and Price, Alfred, *Air Ware South Atlantic*
- Kettler, *South Atlantic War*, 2nd Edition, Clash of Arms
- [Wikipedia]<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aermacchi_MB-339>)
- Dildy, Douglas C.: MB-326 and MB-336 in South Atlantic War <https://www.scribd.com/document/324084444/Aermacchi-Mb339>
